README.md, before:

# 👋 Hi, I'm Raju Methuku

## 🚀 Senior Full Stack Engineer | 10+ Years Experience

**Building scalable, high-performance systems that drive real business impact**

Currently @ **Agoda** (Bangkok, Thailand) | **Open to exciting opportunities globally**

---

### 📧 Contact: `narasimha4789@gmail.com` 📍 Bangkok, Thailand

<div align="left">

[![Email](https://img.shields.io/badge/Email-narasimha4789@gmail.com-red?style=for-the-badge&logo=gmail&logoColor=white)](mailto:narasimha4789@gmail.com)
[![Portfolio](https://img.shields.io/badge/Portfolio-Live-brightgreen?style=for-the-badge&logo=react)](https://raju4789.github.io)
[![LinkedIn](https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-Connect-blue?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/raju-m-l-n/)
[![Medium](https://img.shields.io/badge/Medium-Follow-black?style=for-the-badge&logo=medium)](https://medium.com/@narasimha4789)

</div>

---

## 💼 Professional Summary

I'm a **Senior Full Stack Engineer** with over **10 years** of experience delivering enterprise-grade solutions across **Airlines, Banking, E-commerce, and Insurance** industries. I specialize in architecting scalable microservices, optimizing system performance, and leveraging AI to solve complex business problems.

### 🎯 Key Achievements

| Metric | Impact |
|--------|--------|
| 💰 **Cost Savings** | $5.6M+ through innovative solutions |
| 🚀 **Projects Delivered** | 15+ enterprise-grade applications |
| 👨‍🏫 **Engineers Mentored** | 5+ junior developers|
| ⚡ **Performance Gains** | Up to 30% throughput improvement |

### 🏆 Notable Achievements at Agoda

- 🤖 Built **Java-ChatGPT email analysis system** → Saved **$3.5M annually** (5% efficiency gain)
- ⚛️ Created **React.js quick-access component** → Saved **$2.1M annually** (3% faster handling)
- ✈️ Deployed **flight management system** → Reduced turnaround times by **20%**
- 📨 Developed **Kafka real-time messaging** → Lowered transaction latency by **25%**
- ☁️ Led **cloud migration** for 5 services → Cut operational costs by **10%**
- 🔧 Enhanced **system resilience** via chaos engineering → Increased direct bookings by **15%**

---

## 🛠️ Technical Expertise

### Backend Development (Primary)
![Java](https://img.shields.io/badge/Java_8/17-Expert-ED8B00?logo=openjdk&logoColor=white)
![Spring Boot](https://img.shields.io/badge/Spring_Boot-Expert-6DB33F?logo=spring&logoColor=white)
![Microservices](https://img.shields.io/badge/Microservices-Expert-FF6B6B?logo=microservices)
![Node.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-Intermediate-339933?logo=node.js&logoColor=white)

**10 years Java** | **8 years Spring Boot** | **7 years Microservices**

### Frontend Development
![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/React.js-Advanced-61DAFB?logo=react&logoColor=black)
![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-Advanced-3178C6?logo=typescript&logoColor=white)
![JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/JavaScript-Advanced-F7DF1E?logo=javascript&logoColor=black)

**4 years React** | **4 years TypeScript** | **8 years JavaScript**

### Cloud & DevOps
![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-Expert-2496ED?logo=docker&logoColor=white)
![Kubernetes](https://img.shields.io/badge/Kubernetes-Advanced-326CE5?logo=kubernetes&logoColor=white)
![Kafka](https://img.shields.io/badge/Apache_Kafka-Advanced-231F20?logo=apachekafka)
![CI/CD](https://img.shields.io/badge/CI/CD-Expert-239120?logo=jenkins)

**5 years Docker** | **4 years Kubernetes** | **7 years CI/CD**

### Databases & Caching
![MySQL](https://img.shields.io/badge/MySQL-Expert-4479A1?logo=mysql&logoColor=white)
![SQL Server](https://img.shields.io/badge/SQL_Server-Expert-CC2927?logo=microsoftsqlserver&logoColor=white)
![Redis](https://img.shields.io/badge/Redis-Advanced-DC382D?logo=redis&logoColor=white)
![MongoDB](https://img.shields.io/badge/MongoDB-Intermediate-47A248?logo=mongodb&logoColor=white)

### Monitoring & Observability
![Grafana](https://img.shields.io/badge/Grafana-Advanced-F46800?logo=grafana&logoColor=white)
![Prometheus](https://img.shields.io/badge/Prometheus-Advanced-E6522C?logo=prometheus&logoColor=white)
![OpenTelemetry](https://img.shields.io/badge/OpenTelemetry-Advanced-000000?logo=opentelemetry)

### Architecture & Design
- 🏗️ **System Design** - Scalable, fault-tolerant distributed systems
- 🎯 **Domain-Driven Design (DDD)** - Bounded contexts and microservices
- ✅ **Test-Driven Development (TDD)** - High code quality and coverage
- 🔐 **Security** - OAuth, JWT, OKTA implementation
- 🤖 **AI Integration** - ChatGPT, automation, and ML tools

---

## 💼 Professional Experience

### 🌍 Agoda - Senior Full Stack Engineer
**Feb 2021 - Present (4+ years) | Bangkok, Thailand**

Leading development of high-performance web applications in online travel industry. Architecting microservices, implementing AI automation, and optimizing system performance.

### 🏦 DBS Bank - Software Engineer / Data Analyst
**Jun 2019 - Jan 2021 (1.7 years) | Hyderabad, India**

Developed payment gateway systems and led Java modernization initiatives. Built automation tools for banking operations.

**Key Achievement:** Designed payment gateway handling 500K+ transactions with 15% reliability improvement

### 💻 Talentica Software - Backend Engineer
**Oct 2017 - May 2019 (1.7 years) | Pune, India**

Built NLP-powered chatbot and optimized microservices for e-commerce platforms.

**Recognition:** SPOT Award for NLP chatbot handling 15K+ queries monthly

### 🏢 Intellect Design Arena - Software Developer
**Jun 2015 - Sep 2017 (2.3 years) | Hyderabad, India**

Developed custom dashboards and data visualization solutions for insurance industry.

**Recognition:** GEM Award for JavaScript library integrating Ext JS and D3.js

---

## 🎓 Education

**🏛️ National Institute of Technology (NIT) Raipur**  
Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science - 8.21 CGPA

---

## 🌱 Currently Learning & Exploring

- 🐍 **Python** - Expanding backend capabilities
- 🐹 **Golang** - High-performance microservices
- 🤖 **AI/ML** - Enterprise AI integrations and automation
- ☁️ **Cloud Architecture** - Advanced AWS/Azure/GCP patterns
- 📊 **Data Engineering** - Real-time analytics pipelines

---

## 🏅 Core Strengths

```yaml
Technical:
  - Microservices Architecture & System Design
  - Full Stack Development (Java/Spring Boot/React)
  - Cloud-Native Development (Docker, Kubernetes)
  - Performance Optimization & Scalability
  - AI-Driven Automation & Innovation
  
Soft Skills:
  - Technical Leadership & Mentorship
  - Cross-Functional Collaboration
  - Problem Solving & Innovation
  - Agile/Scrum Methodologies
  - Stakeholder Communication
```

---

## 💡 What I Bring to Your Team

✅ **10+ years** of proven experience delivering high-impact solutions  
✅ **$5.6M+ in cost savings** through innovative engineering  
✅ **Full-stack expertise** from architecture to deployment  
✅ **Agile mindset** with strong collaboration skills  
✅ **Mentorship experience** elevating team capabilities  
✅ **Continuous learner** staying ahead of tech trends

---

## 📫 Let's Connect!

I'm always open to discussing:
- 💼 **Job Opportunities** - Senior/Lead/Principal Engineer roles
- 🤝 **Technical Collaborations** - Open source and innovative projects
- 🎤 **Speaking Engagements** - Tech talks on microservices, system design
- 👨‍🏫 **Mentorship** - Helping junior engineers grow
- 💬 **Consulting** - Architecture reviews and technical guidance

<div align="center">

[![Portfolio](https://img.shields.io/badge/🌐_View_My_Portfolio-brightgreen?style=for-the-badge)](https://raju4789.github.io)

---

*"Architecting systems that don't just work — they excel under pressure and drive measurable business impact."*

⭐ **Currently employed at Agoda but actively exploring exciting opportunities!**

</div>

Commit message:

Fix email to lowercase and improve copyability

README.md, after:

# 👋 Hi, I'm Raju Methuku

## 🚀 Senior Full Stack Engineer | 10+ Years Experience

**Building scalable, high-performance systems that drive real business impact**

Currently @ **Agoda** (Bangkok, Thailand) | **Open to exciting opportunities globally**

---

### 📧 **Email:** 

```
narasimha4789@gmail.com
```
*(Select and copy the email above)*

📍 **Location:** Bangkok, Thailand (Open to relocation/remote)

<div align="left">

[![Email](https://img.shields.io/badge/Email-narasimha4789@gmail.com-red?style=for-the-badge&logo=gmail&logoColor=white)](mailto:narasimha4789@gmail.com)
[![Portfolio](https://img.shields.io/badge/Portfolio-Live-brightgreen?style=for-the-badge&logo=react)](https://raju4789.github.io)
[![LinkedIn](https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-Connect-blue?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/raju-m-l-n/)
[![Medium](https://img.shields.io/badge/Medium-Follow-black?style=for-the-badge&logo=medium)](https://medium.com/@narasimha4789)

</div>

---

## 💼 Professional Summary

I'm a **Senior Full Stack Engineer** with over **10 years** of experience delivering enterprise-grade solutions across **Airlines, Banking, E-commerce, and Insurance** industries. I specialize in architecting scalable microservices, optimizing system performance, and leveraging AI to solve complex business problems.

### 🎯 Key Achievements

| Metric | Impact |
|--------|--------|
| 💰 **Cost Savings** | $5.6M+ through innovative solutions |
| 🚀 **Projects Delivered** | 15+ enterprise-grade applications |
| 👨‍🏫 **Engineers Mentored** | 5+ junior developers|
| ⚡ **Performance Gains** | Up to 30% throughput improvement |

### 🏆 Notable Achievements at Agoda

- 🤖 Built **Java-ChatGPT email analysis system** → Saved **$3.5M annually** (5% efficiency gain)
- ⚛️ Created **React.js quick-access component** → Saved **$2.1M annually** (3% faster handling)
- ✈️ Deployed **flight management system** → Reduced turnaround times by **20%**
- 📨 Developed **Kafka real-time messaging** → Lowered transaction latency by **25%**
- ☁️ Led **cloud migration** for 5 services → Cut operational costs by **10%**
- 🔧 Enhanced **system resilience** via chaos engineering → Increased direct bookings by **15%**

---

## 🛠️ Technical Expertise

### Backend Development (Primary)
![Java](https://img.shields.io/badge/Java_8/17-Expert-ED8B00?logo=openjdk&logoColor=white)
![Spring Boot](https://img.shields.io/badge/Spring_Boot-Expert-6DB33F?logo=spring&logoColor=white)
![Microservices](https://img.shields.io/badge/Microservices-Expert-FF6B6B?logo=microservices)
![Node.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-Intermediate-339933?logo=node.js&logoColor=white)

**10 years Java** | **8 years Spring Boot** | **7 years Microservices**

### Frontend Development
![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/React.js-Advanced-61DAFB?logo=react&logoColor=black)
![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-Advanced-3178C6?logo=typescript&logoColor=white)
![JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/JavaScript-Advanced-F7DF1E?logo=javascript&logoColor=black)

**4 years React** | **4 years TypeScript** | **8 years JavaScript**

### Cloud & DevOps
![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-Expert-2496ED?logo=docker&logoColor=white)
![Kubernetes](https://img.shields.io/badge/Kubernetes-Advanced-326CE5?logo=kubernetes&logoColor=white)
![Kafka](https://img.shields.io/badge/Apache_Kafka-Advanced-231F20?logo=apachekafka)
![CI/CD](https://img.shields.io/badge/CI/CD-Expert-239120?logo=jenkins)

**5 years Docker** | **4 years Kubernetes** | **7 years CI/CD**

### Databases & Caching
![MySQL](https://img.shields.io/badge/MySQL-Expert-4479A1?logo=mysql&logoColor=white)
![SQL Server](https://img.shields.io/badge/SQL_Server-Expert-CC2927?logo=microsoftsqlserver&logoColor=white)
![Redis](https://img.shields.io/badge/Redis-Advanced-DC382D?logo=redis&logoColor=white)
![MongoDB](https://img.shields.io/badge/MongoDB-Intermediate-47A248?logo=mongodb&logoColor=white)

### Monitoring & Observability
![Grafana](https://img.shields.io/badge/Grafana-Advanced-F46800?logo=grafana&logoColor=white)
![Prometheus](https://img.shields.io/badge/Prometheus-Advanced-E6522C?logo=prometheus&logoColor=white)
![OpenTelemetry](https://img.shields.io/badge/OpenTelemetry-Advanced-000000?logo=opentelemetry)

### Architecture & Design
- 🏗️ **System Design** - Scalable, fault-tolerant distributed systems
- 🎯 **Domain-Driven Design (DDD)** - Bounded contexts and microservices
- ✅ **Test-Driven Development (TDD)** - High code quality and coverage
- 🔐 **Security** - OAuth, JWT, OKTA implementation
- 🤖 **AI Integration** - ChatGPT, automation, and ML tools

---

## 💼 Professional Experience

### 🌍 Agoda - Senior Full Stack Engineer
**Feb 2021 - Present (4+ years) | Bangkok, Thailand**

Leading development of high-performance web applications in online travel industry. Architecting microservices, implementing AI automation, and optimizing system performance.

### 🏦 DBS Bank - Software Engineer / Data Analyst
**Jun 2019 - Jan 2021 (1.7 years) | Hyderabad, India**

Developed payment gateway systems and led Java modernization initiatives. Built automation tools for banking operations.

**Key Achievement:** Designed payment gateway handling 500K+ transactions with 15% reliability improvement

### 💻 Talentica Software - Backend Engineer
**Oct 2017 - May 2019 (1.7 years) | Pune, India**

Built NLP-powered chatbot and optimized microservices for e-commerce platforms.

**Recognition:** SPOT Award for NLP chatbot handling 15K+ queries monthly

### 🏢 Intellect Design Arena - Software Developer
**Jun 2015 - Sep 2017 (2.3 years) | Hyderabad, India**

Developed custom dashboards and data visualization solutions for insurance industry.

**Recognition:** GEM Award for JavaScript library integrating Ext JS and D3.js

---

## 🎓 Education

**🏛️ National Institute of Technology (NIT) Raipur**  
Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science - 8.21 CGPA

---

## 🌱 Currently Learning & Exploring

- 🐍 **Python** - Expanding backend capabilities
- 🐹 **Golang** - High-performance microservices
- 🤖 **AI/ML** - Enterprise AI integrations and automation
- ☁️ **Cloud Architecture** - Advanced AWS/Azure/GCP patterns
- 📊 **Data Engineering** - Real-time analytics pipelines

---

## 🏅 Core Strengths

```yaml
Technical:
  - Microservices Architecture & System Design
  - Full Stack Development (Java/Spring Boot/React)
  - Cloud-Native Development (Docker, Kubernetes)
  - Performance Optimization & Scalability
  - AI-Driven Automation & Innovation
  
Soft Skills:
  - Technical Leadership & Mentorship
  - Cross-Functional Collaboration
  - Problem Solving & Innovation
  - Agile/Scrum Methodologies
  - Stakeholder Communication
```

---

## 💡 What I Bring to Your Team

✅ **10+ years** of proven experience delivering high-impact solutions  
✅ **$5.6M+ in cost savings** through innovative engineering  
✅ **Full-stack expertise** from architecture to deployment  
✅ **Agile mindset** with strong collaboration skills  
✅ **Mentorship experience** elevating team capabilities  
✅ **Continuous learner** staying ahead of tech trends

---

## 📫 Let's Connect!

I'm always open to discussing:
- 💼 **Job Opportunities** - Senior/Lead/Principal Engineer roles
- 🤝 **Technical Collaborations** - Open source and innovative projects
- 🎤 **Speaking Engagements** - Tech talks on microservices, system design
- 👨‍🏫 **Mentorship** - Helping junior engineers grow
- 💬 **Consulting** - Architecture reviews and technical guidance

<div align="center">

[![Portfolio](https://img.shields.io/badge/🌐_View_My_Portfolio-brightgreen?style=for-the-badge)](https://raju4789.github.io)

---

*"Architecting systems that don't just work — they excel under pressure and drive measurable business impact."*

⭐ **Currently employed at Agoda but actively exploring exciting opportunities!**

</div>
